=== PAGE 1 ===
COMPOSE: Comprehensive Portrait Shadow
Editing
Andrew Hou1,2, Zhixin Shu2, Xuaner Zhang2, He Zhang2, Yannick
Hold-Geoffroy2, Jae Shin Yoon2, and Xiaoming Liu1
1 Michigan State University
{houandr1,liuxm}@msu.edu
2 Adobe Research
{zshu,cezhang,hezhan,holdgeof,jaeyoon}@adobe.com
Abstract. Existing portrait relighting methods struggle with precise
control over facial shadows, particularly when faced with challenges such
as handling hard shadows from directional light sources or adjusting
shadows while remaining in harmony with existing lighting conditions.
In many situations, completely altering input lighting is undesirable for
portrait retouching applications: one may want to preserve some authen-
ticity in the captured environment. Existing shadow editing methods
typically restrict their application to just the facial region and often of-
fer limited lighting control options, such as shadow softening or rotation.
In this paper, we introduce COMPOSE: a novel shadow editing pipeline
for human portraits, offering precise control over shadow attributes such
as shape, intensity, and position, all while preserving the original envi-
ronmental illumination of the portrait. This level of disentanglement and
controllability is obtained thanks to a novel decomposition of the envi-
ronment map representation into ambient light and an editable gaussian
dominant light source. COMPOSE is a four-stage pipeline that consists
of light estimation and editing, light diffusion, shadow synthesis, and
finally shadow editing. We define facial shadows as the result of a dom-
inant light source, encoded using our novel gaussian environment map
representation. Utilizing an OLAT dataset, we have trained models to:
(1) predict this light source representation from images, and (2) gen-
erate realistic shadows using this representation. We also demonstrate
comprehensive and intuitive shadow editing with our pipeline. Through
extensive quantitativeand qualitative evaluations,wehavedemonstrated
the robust capability of our system in shadow editing.
Keywords: Face Relighting· Shadow Editing· Lighting Decomposition
1 Introduction
Single-image portrait relighting is a well-studied problem with steady interest
from the computer vision and graphics communities. Portrait relighting has a

=== PAGE 2 ===
2 A. Hou et al.
a) Source Image
 b) Soften
Shadow
c) Intensify
Shadow
d) Modify Light
Size
e) Rotate
Shadow
Fig. 1: Overview.COMPOSEisthefirstsingle-imageportraitshadoweditingmethod
that achieves complete shadow editing control,i.e. adjusting shadow intensity, modi-
fying light size, and changing shadow positions, all while preserving the source image’s
other lighting attributes (e.g. ambient light).
wide range of applications in computational photography [31], AR/VR [4,5,19],
and downstream tasks in the face domain [11,25]. While many methods for single
image portrait relighting have been proposed in recent years [17,18,29,31,33,41,
49,54], they often face challenges when dealing with facial shadows.
One popular genre of face relighting methods [31,41] uses low resolution
HDR environment maps to represent lighting. This lighting representation is
used in a conditional image translation framework to control the lighting effect
of the output face image, thereby achieving facial relighting. The requirement for
an environment map restricts users seeking to fine-tune lighting, such as minor
modifications to shadow smoothness or direction. Additionally, a low-resolution
environment map often lacks the precision needed for accurately depicting com-
plex, high-frequency shadow effects. Conversely, several approaches use low-
dimensional spherical harmonics (SH) for their lighting representation [37,54].
These methods, based on simplified lighting and reflectance models, frequently
produce unrealistic relit images. Moreover, they overlook occlusions in the im-
age formation process, disallowing the generation and editing of cast shadows.
SunStage [44] generates realistic shadows on faces but lacks generalizability and
requires videos as input. Some recent works have focused on shadow editing
tasks [11,26,53] using state-of-the-art image generators such as diffusion models.
However, achieving precise control with these sophisticated generators remains
a challenging task. Consequently, these methods often provide limited control in
shadow synthesis, typically handling only shadow softening or completely remov-
ing the shadow, without precise editing of shadow intensity, shape, or position.
To overcome the challenges in modeling and controlling facial shadows in
portrait relighting, we introduce COMPOSE, a system that separates shadow
modeling from ambient light in the lighting representation. COMPOSE enables
flexible manipulation of shadow attributes, including position (lighting direc-
tion), smoothness, and intensity (See Fig. 1). The key innovation in COMPOSE
is its shadow representation, which is compatible with environment map-based
representations, making it easily integrable into existing relighting networks.
Building on the concept of image-based lighting representations (e.g. HDR en-

=== PAGE 3 ===
COMPOSE: Comprehensive Portrait Shadow Editing 3
vironment maps), our approach divides lighting effects into two components:
shadows caused by dominant light sources and ambient lighting. We simplify
the shadow component by attributing it to a single dominant light source on an
environment map. This is encoded using a 2D isotropic Gaussian, with variables
representing light position, standard deviation (indicating light size or diffu-
sion), and scale (light intensity). The remaining lighting effects are attributed
to a diffused environment map, modeling the image’s ambient lighting.
For a given face image, we first predict the lighting as a panorama environ-
ment map, from which we estimate the dominant light (shadow) parameters. The
system then removes shadows to obtain a diffused, albedo-like image. Utilizing
this diffuse image and the shadow representation, we train a network to synthe-
size shadows on the subject in the input image. This shadow synthesis process is
adaptable, accepting various shadow-related parameters for controllable shadow
synthesis, including position and shape. The synthesized shadow can be linearly
blended with the diffuse lighting to create shadows of varying intensities.
To train models for shadow diffusion and synthesis, we utilize an OLAT (one-
light-at-a-time) dataset, captured through a light stage system. This dataset,
combined with the environment map-based lighting representation, ensures our
system’s compatibility with previously proposed face relighting techniques. Our
approach also uniquely offers the capability to accurately model shadows.
Our contributions are thus as follows:
⋄ We propose the first single image portrait shadow editing method with
precise control over various shadow attributes, including shadow shape, intensity,
and position. Our system provides users with the flexibility to control shading
while also preserving the other lighting attributes of the input images.
⋄ We propose a novel lighting decomposition into ambient light and an ed-
itable dominant gaussian light source, which enables disentangled shadow editing
while preserving the remaining lighting attributes.
⋄ We achieve state-of-the-art relighting performance quantitatively and qual-
itatively, including on a light-stage-captured test set and in-the-wild images.
2 Related Work
2.1 Portrait Relighting
Many portrait relighting methods have been proposed in recent years that gen-
erally fall into one of two categories: focusing on reducing the data require-
ment and improving the relighting quality as much as possible with limited
data [6,10,17,18,20,24,33,34,36–39,43–45,47,49,54] or using light stage data
but modeling more complex lighting effects [4,12,28,29,31,41,42,48,50,52].
Among single image portrait relighting methods, a substantial limitation is that
they cannot preserve the original environmental lighting while editing shadows,
and instead opt to relight by replacing the original lighting with a completely
new environment [11], which is undesirable in many portrait editing applica-
tions. Existing methods also struggle to handle more directed lights and fail in
the presence of substantial hard or intense shadows [37,41,54].

=== PAGE 4 ===
4 A. Hou et al.
Fig. 2: Method Overview . COMPOSE is a4-stage shadow editing method consist-
ing of single-image lighting estimation, light diffusion, shadow synthesis, and image
compositing. By first estimating the dominant light position using the environment
map regressed from the input image, COMPOSE can control shadow shape and in-
tensity by controlling light spread and light intensity respectively as well as shadow
position by changing the location of the dominant light. By estimating a diffuse image
ID as well as a shadowed imageIS, COMPOSE can generate the final edited imageIE
through image compositing.
Among portrait relighting methods that take multiple images or videos as
input, the method SunStage [44] is able to maintain the lighting attributes of
the input video’s environment when performing relighting. However, the method
must be trained using a video of a subject on a sunny day and involves an
expensive optimization procedure. The model is also subject-specific and must
beretrainedorfine-tunedevenforthesamesubjectiftheychangetheirhairstyle,
accessories, or clothing. COMPOSE has the advantage of being a single-image
portraitrelightingmethod,andisbothgeneralizableandpracticalforin-the-wild
photo editing applications.
2.2 Shadow Editing
Another line of work closely related to COMPOSE are methods that edit only fa-
cial shadows, including shadow removal [26,53] and shadow softening [11]. Most
similar to our work is the method of [11], which is able to directly control the
degree of shadow softening while preserving the original environmental lighting.
However, unlike COMPOSE, they are restricted to only shadow softening and
cannot handle other shadow editing operations like shadow intensifying, modify-
ing shadow shape, and shadow rotation. Shadow removal methods [14,26,53] are
often even more limited since they cannot control the degree of shadow softening
and attempt to remove the shadow completely.
2.3 Lighting Representations
Existing portrait relighting methods generally utilize one of three lighting repre-
sentations: Spherical Harmonics (SH) [18,33,34,37,54], dominant lighting direc-
tion [17,29], and environment maps [31,41,49]. SH lighting tends to only model

=== PAGE 5 ===
COMPOSE: Comprehensive Portrait Shadow Editing 5
the lower frequencies of lighting effects, and thus is unsuitable for modeling
non-Lambertian hard shadows and specularities and is better suited for diffuse
lightings. Representing the light as a dominant lighting direction can often han-
dle the non-Lambertian effects of directional and point light sources, but they
often leave other lighting attributes such as light size out of the equation (e.g.
Hou et al. [17]). Moreover, they often do not handle diffuse lightings well and
are intended for directional lights [17,29]. The environment map representation
is more flexible and is able to model light intensity, light size, and light position
and can handle both diffuse and directional lights. However, what is largely miss-
ing in this domain is a way to properly decompose the environment map that
enables precise controllability over different lighting components. Existing meth-
ods only perform relighting by completely changing the scene illumination with a
new environment map without disentangling the effects of ambient, diffuse, and
directional light [31,41,49]. This can be undesirable for many computational
photography applications where the user wishes to preserve the ambience of the
scene and edit only the facial shadow alone [11]. Moreover, the default envi-
ronment map representation is unsuitable for some shadow editing applications
such as shrinking the light. While enlarging the light can be performed by ap-
plying a gaussian blur, there is no equivalent operation that can be performed to
shrink the light on an environment map. Our lighting representation decomposes
the environment map into the ambient light and an editable gaussian dominant
light source, which is adaptable in light intensity, size, and position. COMPOSE
is thus able to perform a full suite of shadow editing operations thanks to its
editable gaussian component and can edit the shadow alone without disrupting
other lighting attributes (e.g. ambient light).
3 Methodology
3.1 Problem Formulation
In our framework, shadows are treated as a composable lighting effect, which
can be independently predicted and altered based on a specific face image. This
shadow representation is integrated into the overall lighting representation, and
our framework is designed to (1) accurately predict the shadow from an image,
and (2) apply a controllable shadow onto a shadow-free face image. We define
the portrait shadow editing problem based on properties of shadows that users
can manipulate, namely shadow position, shadow intensity, and shadow shape.
These shadow properties are connected to the lighting attribute that is easily
controllable. Specifically, given source imageIN and desired edited output image
IE with modified shadows, our problem can be written as:
IE = Fθ(IN , x, y, σ, γ), (1)
where Fθ is our shadow editing method,x and y are the desired light position on
an environment map,σ is the light size, andγ is the light intensity. By editing
the parameters, (x, y), σ, andγ, we can control the shadow position, shape, and
intensity respectively. We describe our solution COMPOSE in detail in Sec. 3.2.

=== PAGE 6 ===
6 A. Hou et al.
3.2 COMPOSE Framework
COMPOSE is a 4-stage shadow editing framework, consisting of single image
lighting estimation, light diffusion, shadow synthesis, and finally image com-
positing. See Fig. 2 for an overview of our method.
Lighting Estimation In the lighting estimation stage, we train a variational
autoencoder (VAE) [23] to estimate an environment map (LDR) from a single
portrait image as its lighting representationIN. From this environment map, we
then estimate the dominant light position. Naturally, the dominant light, such
as the sun, represents the brightest intensity on a image-based lighting repre-
sentation. Therefore we can simply obtain the dominant light position by fitting
a 2D isotropic Gaussian on the predicted environment map. The center of the
Gaussian will indicate the position of the dominant light on the 2D environment
map. This estimated light position corresponds to the shadow information on the
input image, and therefore is useful for “in-place” shadow editing (e.g., shadow
softening, shadow intensifying) in the later stage that does not alter the direc-
tion of the dominant light. We argue this is desirable in many portrait editing
applications where the user only wants to edit existing shadows and does not
want to alter the ambient lighting.
Light DiffusionIn the light diffusion stage, we remove all existing hard shad-
ows and specular highlights from the input image and output a “diffused” image
ID with very smooth shading. This represents the input face under only an
ambient illumination condition. Our light diffusion network consists of a hierar-
chical transformer encoder that generates multi-level features, which are fed to
a decoder with transposed convolutional layers. Our network takes as input the
original input image, a body parsing mask, and a binary foreground mask.
Shadow Synthesis In the shadow synthesis stage, we aim to produce a shad-
owed image IS illuminated by an edited light source given the diffuse imageID
estimated from the light diffusion stage and an edited environment map. Using
the estimated dominant light position from the light estimation stage, we have
full control over light attributes such as light size, intensity, and the dominant
light position. We can produce a new environment map using a Gaussian to
represent the dominant light, where the light size is modeled by the standard
deviation of the Gaussian (a larger standard deviation represents a larger, more
diffuse light) and the light intensity can be adjusted by multiplying the Gaussian
with a scalar. This allows our method to control shadow shape, light intensity,
and position. To regress the shadowed imageIS, we propose a two-stage archi-
tecture: a U-Net followed by a conditional DDPM (See Fig. 3). For the first
stage, we adopt the U-Net architecture of [41]. During training, instead of us-
ing a reshaped environment map-like representation for the dominant light, we
design a feature map-like representation that’s parameterized by the shadow at-
tributes. Specifically, the lighting representation for shadows has 4 parameters.
The first two parameters x and y encode the coordinates of the light center
on the environment map, the third parameterσ encodes the light size, and the
fourth parameter γ encodes the light intensity. All four parameters are normal-
ized between 0 and 1 and repeated spatially as32 × 32 channels to be suitable

=== PAGE 7 ===
COMPOSE: Comprehensive Portrait Shadow Editing 7
Fig. 3: Shadow Synthesis Pipeline . Our shadow synthesis step consists of two
stages: a U-Net followed by a conditional DDPM. The U-Net takes ambient image
ID and environment mapET as input and outputs the coarse relit imageIU. With IU
and ET as spatial conditions, the conditional DDPM outputs the final shadowed image
IS, refining shadow boundaries and improving image quality.
inputs for the U-Net. We find that this lighting representation leads to faster
convergence, especially when the desired light mimics a point light and occupies
a tiny portion of the environment map. We feed the diffuse imageID and our
desired lighting feature map to the U-Net, and the output is a relit imageIU.
While the U-Net architecture has merits such as complete geometric consistency
for shadow synthesis, one demerit is that the synthesized shadow boundaries are
often not very sharp and the overall image quality could be improved. We thus
employ a DDPM [7,15] as the second stage of our shadow synthesis model. The
role of the DDPM here is to take the output image of the U-NetIU as a spa-
tial condition along with the lighting parameters and perform image refinement
to generate the final shadowed imageIS. The training objective of our shadow
synthesis DDPM thus becomes:
Et,x0,ϵ
h
∥ϵ − ϵθ(xt, t, IU , x, y, σ, γ)∥2
i
. (2)
Our condition IU is spatially concatenated withxt and our lighting parameters
are repeated spatially as channels of the same resolution and similarly spatially
concatenated, where xt = √¯αtx0 + √1 − ¯αtϵ. We find that the quality of the
edited images is noticeably enhanced by the DDPM compared to the U-Net
alone and that adding the DDPM sharpens the shadow boundaries.
Image Compositing With ID from our light diffusion stage andIS from our
shadow synthesis stage, we can then perform image compositing betweenID and
IS to achieve our final edited imageIE, by assigning weightsωD and ωS to ID
and IS respectively. The final edited imageIE is thus generated as:
IE = ωDID + ωSIS, (3)
where ωD + ωS = 1. By adjusting ωD and ωS, we can further tune shadow
intensity: a higherωD softens shadows and a higherωS results in darker shadows.
3.3 Loss Functions
To train our single image lighting estimation network, we apply two loss func-
tions commonly used in VAE training [23]:Lrecon and LKLD. Lrecon is a recon-
struction loss between the predicted environment mapEP and the groundtruth

=== PAGE 8 ===
8 A. Hou et al.
environment map EG defined as follows:
Lrecon = 1
3HW (∥EP − EG∥2
2), (4)
where H and W are the size of the environment maps. The Kullback–Leibler
divergence (KLD) lossLKLD is:
LKLD = − 1
2N
NX
i=1
(1 +log(σ2
i ) − µ2
i − σ2
i ), (5)
where N is the dimensionality of the latent vector,µ is the batch mean, andσ2
is the batch variance. The final loss for our lighting estimation network is thus:
LLE = λ1Lrecon + λ2LKLD, (6)
where λ1 = 1 and λ2 = 2.5 × 10−4.
Ourlightdiffusionnetworkisalsotrainedwithtwolosses Lrecon and Lperceptual.
Lrecon = 1
3HW (∥ID − IG∥1), (7)
where H and W are the size of the training images,ID is the predicted diffuse
image, and IG is the groundtruth diffuse image.Lperceptual enforces visual simi-
larity [51] and is computed as the distance between VGG [40] features computed
for ID and IG. The final loss for the light diffusion network is thus:
LLD = Lrecon + Lperceptual. (8)
When training the U-Net of our shadow synthesis pipeline, we employ a
single reconstruction loss Lrecon between the predicted relit imageIS and the
groundtruth IG, defined as follows:
Lrecon = 1
3HW (∥IS − IG∥2
2). (9)
3.4 Data Collection and Generation
Totrainoutnetworks,weusealightstagetocaptureone-light-at-a-time(OLAT)
images of 107 subjects with diverse skin tones, body poses, expressions, and
accessories using a light stage [9] with160 lights. Each subject is captured under
10-20 sessions with varied body poses, expressions, and accessories. Each session
is captured by4 cameras with varying camera poses.
To generate input images to train our lighting estimation VAE and our light
diffusion network, we render our OLAT images using a diverse set of environ-
ment maps collected from the Polyhaven and Laval Outdoor HDR datasets [16].
During rendering, we apply random augmentations to the environment map in-
cluding rotations and adjusting intensity to improve our model’s generalization
to different lighting. The groundtruth EG for our lighting estimation VAE is

=== PAGE 9 ===
COMPOSE: Comprehensive Portrait Shadow Editing 9
simply the environment map used for rendering, and the groundtruthIG for
the light diffusion network is generated by rendering OLAT images with heavily
blurred, diffuse environment maps.
To generate images for our shadow synthesis stage, we render groundtruth
relitimagesbyusingenvironmentmapsconsistingofGaussianlightswithvarious
positions, intensities, and sizes (See Sec. 3.2) along with our OLAT images. As
the input to the shadow synthesis stage is meant to be the diffuse imageID
predicted by the light diffusion stage, we generate diffuse images for training
our shadow synthesis networks by rendering OLAT images with heavily blurred
environment maps in the Polyhaven and Laval Outdoor HDR datasets.
3.5 Implementation Details
We implement all components of COMPOSE using PyTorch [32]. When training
our lighting estimation VAE, we use a batch size of128 and a learning rate of
10−4 on 4 24GB A10G GPUs. For our light diffusion network, we train with
a batch size of 88 and a learning rate of 10−4 using 8 A100 GPUs. For our
shadow synthesis U-Net, we train with a batch size of100 and a learning rate
of 10−4 using 4 24GB A10G GPUs. For all networks, we train using the Adam
Optimizer [22]. The image resolution used to train the lighting estimation and
shadow synthesis networks is 256 × 256 and the resolution used to train the
light diffusion network is768 × 768. Please see the supplementary materials for
architectural details of the lighting estimation network, the lighting diffusion
network, and the shadow synthesis network.
4 Experiments
4.1 Datasets
To train our lighting estimation and shadow synthesis networks, we generate our
training sets using light stage images and521 outdoor environment maps. Our
training set consists of82 subjects with significant variation in factors such as
skin tones, pose, expressions, and accessories.
For evaluation, we use two separate evaluation sets: the first is generated
using our light stage images and has corresponding groundtruth, and the second
consists of in-the-wild images that represent more realistic application settings
and do not have groundtruth. Our light stage evaluation set consists of48 images
from a total of16 subjects with diverse skin tones, body poses, expressions, and
accessories. All evaluation subjects and lightings are held out and unseen during
training. Our in-the-wild evaluation set also consists of unseen test subjects and
applies unseen lighting conditions in all qualitative results.
4.2 Shadow Editing Evaluation
We evaluate our shadow editing performance (synthesis and removal) by using
randomly sampled, unseen lighting positions as the target lights to generate relit
light stage images of our16 test subjects, which serve as groundtruth.

=== PAGE 10 ===
10 A. Hou et al.
a) Source
 b) Target
 c) Ours
 d) TR [31]
 e) [17]
Fig. 4: Shadow Synthesis . Our model synthesizes more plausible shadows than the
baselines, and, unlike [17], is also able to properly remove shadows from the source im-
age before relighting. Environment maps are shown to help visualize each test lighting.
T able 1: Shadow Editing Performance . We evaluate shadow editing using unseen
lightings with varied intensity and size on16 held out highly diverse light stage test
subjects with groundtruth relit images. COMPOSE outperforms all baselines quantita-
tively in shadow editing performance across all metrics (mean± standard deviation).
MAE MSE SSIM LPIPS
Houet al.[17] 0.1172±0.0754 0 .0438±0.0503 0 .7059±0.1061 0 .2371±0.0871
Total Relighting [31]0.1008±0.0743 0 .0379±0.0447 0 .7754±0.0738 0 .2120±0.0572
COMPOSE (Ours)0.0965±0.0686 0 .0349±0.0368 0 .7780±0.0826 0 .1973±0.0678
Each input image is rendered with a randomly selected environment map out
of 125 unseen outdoor environment maps and is first passed to our deshading
network to generate diffuse imageID. ID and target environment mapET are
then fed to our two-stage shadow synthesis pipeline to generate the newly shad-
owed image IS, which is evaluated against the groundtruth light stage image.
Tab. 1 compares our shadow editing performance against prior relighting
methods. For both baselines [17,31], the test results were provided by the au-
thors. Our method achieves state-of-the-art results on all metrics (MAE, MSE,
SSIM [46], and LPIPS [51]). As seen in Fig. 4, our model can synthesize appro-
priate shadows for various light positions. The method of Houet al. [17] cannot

=== PAGE 11 ===
COMPOSE: Comprehensive Portrait Shadow Editing 11
a) Source
Image
b) Soften
Shadows
c) Intensify
Shadows
d) Modify
Light Size
e) Rotate
Shadows
Fig. 5: Shadow Editing . Our method achieves complete shadow editing control, in-
cluding softening/intensifying shadows, changing light size to alter shape and intensity,
and changing light position, all while preserving the source image’s ambient light.
remove existing shadows in the source image and the shadow traces carry over
as artifacts to the relit images. In addition, Hou et al. [17] only models the
lighting direction and does not model the light size as a parameter, which leads
to inaccurate shadow shape when the light size is varied. Total Relighting [31]
is often unable to synthesize physically plausible shadows, and will sometimes
overshadow (Fig. 4, rows1, 3, and4) or undershadow the image (Fig. 4, row2).
Moreover, their shadows are often blurry and not as sharp as our method. Com-
pared to the baselines, COMPOSE can properly remove existing shadows from
the source image and synthesize geometrically plausible and realistic shadows
for a wide variety of lighting conditions.
4.3 Portrait Shadow Editing Applications
We demonstrate the full performance of COMPOSE by performing all forms
of shadow editing, including shadow softening, shadow intensifying, modifying
light size (which changes both shadow shape and intensity), and shadow rotation

=== PAGE 12 ===
12 A. Hou et al.
Fig. 6: Degree of Shadow Editing . We demonstrate COMPOSE’s controllable
shadow editing by varying shadow intensity (top row), light diffusion for modifying
shadow shape and intensity (middle row), and light position (bottom row).
by changing the dominant light position. For each image, we first estimate the
diffuse image ID and the shadowed image IS and perform image compositing
between these two images to generate the final edited image IE. As seen in
Fig. 5, COMPOSE properly edits the shadows of in-the-wild images. To soften
or intensify the shadow without changing the shadow shape, we rely on our
image compositing coefficients ωd and ωs, which control the contributions of
ID and IS respectively. We increase the weight ofωd to soften the shadow and
increase the weight ofωs to strengthen the shadow. We further show that we can
modify light size by tuning the Gaussian spreadσ, which changes both shadow
shape and intensity. Enlarging the light makes the shadow more diffuse and less
intense, whereas shrinking the light generates a harder, more intense shadow.
For the subjects in rows2, 3, and 4 we enlarged the light, resulting in a more
diffuse shadow especially noticeable around the nose. For the subject in row1
we instead shrunk the light and appropriately produce an edited image with
more prominent and intense hard shadows. Finally, we also demonstrate shadow
rotation by changing the dominant light position inIS’s environment map.
TodemonstrateCOMPOSEcanproperlycontrolshadowediting,wevisualize
various degrees of shadow softening/intensifying, light diffusion, and shadow ro-
tation in Fig. 6. The first row shows varying shadow intensity, where the shadows
become less intense from left to right usingωd and ωs. Our results demonstrate
that these flexible weights allow for a wide range of shadow intensities. The
second row shows increasing degrees of light diffusion from left to right, which
corresponds to increasing the light size. The shadows in the generated images

=== PAGE 13 ===
COMPOSE: Comprehensive Portrait Shadow Editing 13
a) Source
 b) 0.75
 c) 0.5
 d) 0.2
 e) 0.0
Fig. 7: Controllable Shadow Softening. For each subject, we show the shadow soft-
ening results of [11] in the first row and COMPOSE in the second. COMPOSE leaves
less shadow traces at level0.0, where the goal is to remove the shadows completely.
correctly transition from harder shadows to more diffuse shadows as the light
size increases. The third row shows shadow rotation, where the light is rotated
horizontally along the environment map and around the subject. COMPOSE is
able to produce physically plausible shadows as the light position changes.
It is important to note that this level of controllable shadow editing is not
achievable by existing portrait shadow editing methods [11,53] that are only
able to handle shadow softening or complete shadow removal as well as existing
portraitrelightingmethodsthatcompletelymodifytheexistingenvironmentand
cannot preserve the original scene illumination [31], do not properly model all
shadow attributes (e.g. intensity, shape, and position) [17,33] or are not designed
to handle lighting conditions with more substantial shadows [37,41,54].
4.4 Shadow Softening Comparison
We compare on in-the-wild shadow softening with the state-of-the-art portrait
shadow softening method Futschiket al. [11]. Using results provided by the au-
thors, we visualize different degrees of shadow softening for [11] by varying the
light diffusion parameter (0.75, 0.5, 0.2, and 0.0) and compare with equivalent
degrees of shadow softening by COMPOSE, as shown in Fig. 7. Higher parame-
ter values correspond to less softening whereas lower values correspond to more
softening. At 0.0, the goal is to completely remove the source image’s shadows.
Across all degrees of light diffusion, both methods gradually soften the shadow,
but COMPOSE leaves less shadow traces than [11] when completely removing

=== PAGE 14 ===
14 A. Hou et al.
the source image’s shadows at level0.0, especially for images with darker shad-
ows. This is thanks to our hierarchical transformer design for our light diffusion
network, which better handles removing the effects of shadows at all scales.
5 Conclusion
We have proposed COMPOSE: the first single image portrait shadow editing
method that can perform comprehensive variations of shadow editing including
editing shadow intensity, light size, and shadow position while preserving the
source image’s lighting environment. This is largely enabled by our novel lighting
decomposition into ambient light and an editable gaussian dominant light, which
enables new applications like shrinking the light and intensifying shadows as
well as disentangled shadow editing that preserves the scene ambience. We have
demonstrated the novel photo editing applications enabled by our method over
prior work qualitatively and that our method achieves state-of-the-art shadow
editing performance quantitatively over prior relighting methods. We hope that
our work can inspire and motivate more research in the exciting new research
area of controllable and comprehensive portrait shadow editing.
Limitations. Good directions for future work include handling lighting environ-
ments with multiple light sources and indoor environments, as our framework
is intended mostly for outdoor settings, where the sun is the single dominant
light. In addition, whileID can preserve the ambience, we still notice there are
sometimes color shifts with the environmental lighting during shadow editing,
largely due to the compositing step with shadowed imageIS (which adopts the
light stage’s environmental lighting). This could be alleviated by modeling the
diffuse lighting tint similar to [11] or by training with white balanced data to
remove the color bias of the light stage. We also believe that one can continue
to improve the generalizability of our model. Similar to other relighting meth-
ods that rely on light stage data [11,31,41], we train with a limited number of
subjects. Future work may incorporate synthetic data to expand the training set
or adopt latent diffusion models, which naturally have high generalizability [35].
Finally, one can further improve the identity preservation of our method. We
find that high frequency details are sometimes lost at the initial U-Net stage
of shadow synthesis, and ways to better preserve the identity include passing
ID or the input imageIN, which contain high frequency details, as additional
conditions to the DDPM or to use stronger backbones than [41].
Potential Societal Impacts. In image editing, there are always concerns of
generating malicious deepfakes. However, we only alter illumination, not subject
identity. Even so, there may be concerns that altering the illumination and espe-
cially adding dark shadows to faces could be used as a malicious attack to worsen
the performance of downstream tasks such as face recognition. Users can detect
these attacks using existing deepfake detection methods [1–3,8,13,21,27,30] or
by training one using the edited images generated by COMPOSE. State-of-the-
art shadow removal methods [26,53] are also an option to counter these potential
attacks since they can remove any facial shadows that COMPOSE synthesizes.

=== PAGE 15 ===
COMPOSE: Comprehensive Portrait Shadow Editing 15
References
1. Aghasanli, A., Kangin, D., Angelov, P.: Interpretable-through-prototypes deepfake
detection for diffusion models. In: ICCVW (2023)
2. Asnani, V., Yin, X., Hassner, T., Liu, X.: MaLP: Manipulation localization using
a proactive scheme. In: CVPR (2023)
3. Asnani, V., Yin, X., Hassner, T., Liu, X.: Reverse engineering of generative models:
Inferring model hyperparameters from generated images. PAMI (2023)
4. Bi, S., Lombardi, S., Saito, S., Simon, T., Wei, S.E., McPhail, K., Ramamoorthi,
R., Sheikh, Y., Saragih, J.: Deep relightable appearance models for animatable
faces. TOG (2021)
5. Caselles, P., Ramon, E., Garcia, J., i Nieto, X.G., Moreno-Noguer, F., Triginer, G.:
SIRA: Relightable avatars from a single image. In: WACV (2023)
6. Chandran,S.,Hold-Geoffroy,Y.,Sunkavalli,K.,Shu,Z.,Jayasuriya,S.:Temporally
consistent relighting for portrait videos. In: WACV (2022)
7. Choi, J., Kim, S., Jeong, Y., Gwon, Y., Yoon, S.: ILVR: Conditioning method for
denoising diffusion probabilistic models. In: ICCV (2021)
8. Corvi, R., Cozzolino, D., Zingarini, G., Poggi, G., Nagano, K., Verdoliva, L.: On
the detection of synthetic images generated by diffusion models. In: ICASSP (2023)
9. Debevec, P., Hawkins, T., Tchou, C., Duiker, H.P., Sarokin, W., Sagar, M.: Ac-
quiring the reflectance field of a human face. In: SIGGRAPH (2000)
10. Ding, Z., Zhang, C., Xia, Z., Jebe, L., Tu, Z., Zhang, X.: DiffusionRig: Learning
personalized priors for facial appearance editing. In: CVPR (2023)
11. Futschik, D., Ritland, K., Vecore, J., Fanello, S., Orts-Escolano, S., Curless, B.,
Sýkora, D., Pandey, R.: Controllable light diffusion for portraits. In: CVPR (2023)
12. Guo, K., Lincoln, P., Davidson, P., Busch, J., Yu, X., Whalen, M., Harvey, G.,
Orts-Escolano, S., Pandey, R., Dourgarian, J., DuVall, M., Tang, D., Tkach, A.,
Kowdle, A., Cooper, E., Dou, M., Fanello, S., Fyffe, G., Rhemann, C., Taylor,
J., Debevec, P., Izadi, S.: The Relightables: Volumetric performance capture of
humans with realistic relighting. In: SIGGRAPH Asia (2019)
13. Guo, X., Liu, X., Ren, Z., Grosz, S., Masi, I., Liu, X.: Hierarchical fine-grained
image forgery detection and localization. In: CVPR (2023)
14. He, Y., Xing, Y., Zhang, T., Chen, Q.: Unsupervised portrait shadow removal via
generative priors. In: MM (2021)
15. Ho, J., Jain, A., Abbeel, P.: Denoising diffusion probabilistic models. In: NeurIPS
(2020)
16. Hold-Geoffroy, Y., Athawale, A., Lalonde, J.F.: Deep sky modeling for single image
outdoor lighting estimation. In: CVPR (2019)
17. Hou, A., Sarkis, M., Bi, N., Tong, Y., Liu, X.: Face relighting with geometrically
consistent shadows. In: CVPR (2022)
18. Hou, A., Zhang, Z., Sarkis, M., Bi, N., Tong, Y., Liu, X.: Towards high fidelity face
relighting with realistic shadows. In: CVPR (2021)
19. Iqbal, U., Caliskan, A., Nagano, K., Khamis, S., Molchanov, P., Kautz, J.: RANA:
Relightable articulated neural avatars. In: ICCV (2023)
20. Ji, C., Yu, T., Guo, K., Liu, J., Liu, Y.: Geometry-aware single-image full-body
human relighting. In: ECCV (2022)
21. Kamat, S., Agarwal, S., Darrell, T., Rohrbach, A.: Revisiting generalizability in
deepfake detection: Improving metrics and stabilizing transfer. In: ICCVW (2023)
22. Kingma, D., Adam, J.B.: A method for stochastic optimization. In: ICLR (2014)
23. Kingma, D.P., Welling, M.: Auto-encoding variational bayes . In: ICLR (2014)

=== PAGE 16 ===
16 A. Hou et al.
24. Lagunas, M., Sun, X., Yang, J., Villegas, R., Zhang, J., Shu, Z., Masia, B., Gutier-
rez, D.: Single-image full-body human relighting. In: EGSR (2021)
25. Le, H., Kakadiaris, I.: Illumination-invariant face recognition with deep relit face
images. In: WACV (2019)
26. Liu, Y., Hou, A., Huang, X., Ren, L., Liu, X.: Blind removal of facial foreign
shadows. In: BMVC (2022)
27. Lorenz, P., Durall, R.L., Keuper, J.: Detecting images generated by deep diffusion
models using their local intrinsic dimensionality. In: ICCVW (2023)
28. Mei, Y., Zhang, H., Zhang, X., Zhang, J., Shu, Z., Wang, Y., Wei, Z., Yan, S.,
Jung, H., Patel, V.M.: LightPainter: Interactive portrait relighting with freehand
scribble. In: CVPR (2023)
29. Nestmeyer,T.,Lalonde,J.F.,Matthews,I.,Lehrmann,A.:Learningphysics-guided
face relighting under directional light. In: CVPR (2020)
30. Ojha, U., Li, Y., Lee, Y.J.: Towards universal fake image detectors that generalize
across generative models. In: CVPR (2023)
31. Pandey, R., Orts-Escolano, S., LeGendre, C., Haene, C., Bouaziz, S., Rhemann,
C., Debevec, P., Fanello, S.: Total relighting: Learning to relight portraits for back-
ground replacement. In: SIGGRAPH (2021)
32. Paszke, A., Gross, S., Chintala, S., Chanan, G., Yang, E., DeVito, Z., Lin, Z.,
Desmaison, A., Antiga, L., Lerer, A.: Automatic differentiation in PyTorch. In:
NeurIPSW (2017)
33. Ponglertnapakorn, P., Tritrong, N., Suwajanakorn, S.: DiFaReli: Diffusion face re-
lighting. In: ICCV (2023)
34. Ranjan, A., Yi, K.M., Chang, J.H.R., Tuzel, O.: FaceLit: Neural 3D relightable
faces. In: CVPR (June 2023)
35. Rombach, R., Blattmann, A., Lorenz, D., Esser, P., Ommer, B.: High-resolution
image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In: CVPR (2022)
36. Sengupta, R., Curless, B., Kemelmacher-Shlizerman, I., Seitz, S.: A light stage on
every desk. In: ICCV (2021)
37. Sengupta, S., Kanazawa, A., Castillo, C.D., Jacobs, D.W.: SfSNet: Learning shape,
refectance and illuminance of faces in the wild. In: CVPR (2018)
38. Shih, Y., Paris, S., Barnes, C., Freeman, W.T., Durand, F.: Style transfer for
headshot portraits. TOG (2014)
39. Shu, Z., Hadap, S., Shechtman, E., Sunkavalli, K., Paris, S., Samaras, D.: Portrait
lighting transfer using a mass transport approach. TOG (2017)
40. Simonyan, K., Zisserman, A.: Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale
image recognition. In: ICLR (2015)
41. Sun, T., Barron, J.T., Tsai, Y.T., Xu, Z., Yu, X., Fyffe, G., Rhemann, C., Busch, J.,
Debevec, P., Ramamoorthi, R.: Single image portrait relighting. In: SIGGRAPH
(2019)
42. Sun, T., Lin, K.E., Bi, S., Xu, Z., Ramamoorthi, R.: NeLF: Neural light-transport
field for portrait view synthesis and relighting. In: EGSR (2021)
43. Tan, F., Fanello, S., Meka, A., OrtsEscolano, S., Tang, D., Pandey, R., Taylor, J.,
Tan, P., Zhang., Y.: VoLux-GAN: A generative model for 3D face synthesis with
HDRI relighting. In: SIGGRAPH (2022)
44. Wang, Y., Holynski, A., Zhang, X., Zhang, X.: Sunstage: Portrait reconstruction
and relighting using the sun as a light stage. In: CVPR (2023)
45. Wang, Z., Yu, X., Lu, M., Wang, Q., Qian, C., Xu, F.: Single image portrait
relighting via explicit multiple reflectance channel modeling. TOG (2020)
46. Wang, Z., Bovik, A.C., Sheikh, H.R., Simoncelli, E.P.: Image quality assessment:
from error visibility to structural similarity. TIP (2004)

=== PAGE 17 ===
COMPOSE: Comprehensive Portrait Shadow Editing 17
47. Weir, J., Zhao, J., Chalmers, A., Rhee, T.: Deep portrait delighting. In: ECCV
(2022)
48. Yang, X., Taketomi, T.: BareSkinNet: Demakeup and de-lighting via 3D face re-
construction. CGF (2022)
49. Yeh, Y.Y., Nagano, K., Khamis, S., Kautz, J., Liu, M.Y., Wang, T.C.: Learning to
relight portrait images via a virtual light stage and synthetic-to-real adaptation.
TOG (2022)
50. Zhang, L., Zhang, Q., Wu, M., Yu, J., Xu, L.: Neural video portrait relighting in
real-time via consistency modeling. In: ICCV (2021)
51. Zhang, R., Isola, P., Efros, A.A., Shechtman, E., Wang, O.: The unreasonable
effectiveness of deep features as a perceptual metric. In: CVPR (2018)
52. Zhang, X., Fanello, S., Tsai, Y.T., Sun, T., Xue, T., Pandey, R., Orts-Escolano, S.,
Davidson, P., Rhemann, C., Debevec, P., Barron, J.T., Ramamoorthi, R., Freeman,
W.T.: Neural light transport for relighting and view synthesis. TOG (2021)
53. Zhang, X., Barron, J.T., Tsai, Y.T., Pandey, R., Zhang, X., Ng, R., Jacobs, D.E.:
Portrait Shadow Manipulation. TOG (2020)
54. Zhou, H., Hadap, S., Sunkavalli, K., Jacobs, D.W.: Deep single portrait image
relighting. In: ICCV (2019)