=== PAGE 1 ===
SVFR: A Unified Framework for Generalized Video Face Restoration
Zhiyao Wang1,2, Xu Chen2,*, Chengming Xu2, Junwei Zhu2†, Xiaobin Hu2,
Jiangning Zhang2, Chengjie Wang2, Yuqi Liu1, Yiyi Zhou1†, Rongrong Ji1
1Key Laboratory of Multimedia Trusted Perception and Efficient Computing,
Ministry of Education of China, Xiamen University, China 2Tencent Youtu Lab
Abstract
Face Restoration (FR) is a crucial area within image and
video processing, focusing on reconstructing high-quality
portraits from degraded inputs. Despite advancements in
image FR, video FR remains relatively under-explored, pri-
marily due to challenges related to temporal consistency,
motion artifacts, and the limited availability of high-quality
video data. Moreover, traditional face restoration typi-
cally prioritizes enhancing resolution and may not give as
much consideration to related tasks such as facial coloriza-
tion and inpainting. In this paper, we propose a novel ap-
proach for the Generalized Video Face Restoration (GVFR)
task, which integrates video BFR, inpainting, and coloriza-
tion tasks that we empirically show to benefit each other.
We present a unified framework, termed as stable video
face restoration (SVFR), which leverages the generative
and motion priors of Stable Video Diffusion (SVD) and
incorporates task-specific information through a unified
face restoration framework. A learnable task embedding
is introduced to enhance task identification. Meanwhile,
a novel Unified Latent Regularization (ULR) is employed
to encourage the shared feature representation learning
among different subtasks. To further enhance the restora-
tion quality and temporal stability, we introduce the fa-
cial prior learning and the self-referred refinement as aux-
iliary strategies used for both training and inference. The
proposed framework effectively combines the complemen-
tary strengths of these tasks, enhancing temporal coherence
and achieving superior restoration quality. This work ad-
vances the state-of-the-art in video FR and establishes a
new paradigm for generalized video face restoration. Code
and video demo are available at https://github.
com/wangzhiyaoo/SVFR.git.
1. Introduction
Face Restoration (FR) is a critical area of research within
the broader field of image and video processing, aiming to
recover high-quality facial images from degraded inputs.
SVFR
Colorization
GPEN
BFR
PGTFormer
Inpainting
CodeFormer
Figure 1. Face restoration results of SOTA single task methods
and SVFR. Our unified SVFR model outperforms SOTA single
task methods by avoiding facial structure abnormalities, temporal
color inconsistencies, and texture distortions.
This task has significant applications for both images and
videos. For example, effective image FR methods can help
on personal photo enhancement, historical photo restora-
tion, and forensic analysis, while video FR can well serve
the goal of film restoration and surveillance.
While abundant works have been proposed to solve im-
age FR with acceptable results, the video FR, which tar-
gets high-quality and realistic face recovery with appropri-
ate identity consistency together with temporal stability, has
hardly been explored. Few efforts dedicated to this area
such as BasicVSR++ [7] and KEEP [43] still significantly
lack behind their image-based counterparts, suffering from
problems such as low generation quality, temporal jitter
and discontinuity, due to the multifaceted challenges. The
main problem lies in the fact that video FR is intrinsically
more complex than image FR in that the temporal dimen-
sion introduces additional complexity, requiring the model
to maintain consistency across frames while dealing with
motion artifacts, occlusions, and varying lighting condi-
tions. However, the high-quality training data for video FR
is hard to collect. In this way, the scarcity of high-quality
annotated video datasets further complicates the training
process, making it difficult to achieve robust performance.
Moreover, the limited capacity of architecture adopted by
*Equal Contribution. †Corresponding Author.
1
arXiv:2501.01235v2  [cs.CV]  3 Jan 2025

=== PAGE 2 ===
previous works also contributes to the low fidelity problem.
To this end, in this paper, we explore an alternative solu-
tion to the above-mentioned problems, that is, leveraging a
unified face restoration framework that simultaneously en-
gages more general restoration supervision other than BFR.
Such an idea has been successfully applied to a wide range
of deep learning tasks. For example, multi-task learning
frameworks have shown significant improvements in nat-
ural language processing [38], where tasks like translation,
summarization, and question answering benefit from shared
representations. Meanwhile, one can find that BFR intrinsi-
cally shares similar goals with other tasks, e.g., the color of
low-quality videos is often destroyed due to compression ar-
tifacts, whose restoration also involves performing coloriza-
tion. Intuitively, a well-learned colorization model should
enhance the BFR process by providing more accurate color
information. Similarly, inpainting techniques, which aim
to fill in missing or corrupted regions in images, can pro-
vide valuable priors for restoring occluded or degraded fa-
cial features in videos.
To validate this idea, we first conduct several pilot exper-
iments to show that with simple transfer learning, the prior
knowledge from BFR, inpainting, and colorization can be
beneficial for each other. These experiments demonstrate
that leveraging shared representations across these tasks can
lead to improved performance in video BFR. For instance,
we observed that models pretrained on colorization tasks
were better at restoring natural skin tones in low-quality
videos, while inpainting models helped in reconstructing
occluded facial regions with higher fidelity.
Based on this clue, we in this paper propose a novel
framework dubbed as Stable Video Face Restoration
(SVFR) as a generalized solver for a composited video FR
task named Generalized Video Face Restoration (GVFR),
including video BFR [24, 33, 52], inpainting [30, 41, 50],
and colorization [40], to enhance the supervision from lim-
ited training data. Our proposed SVFR leverages strong
motion-level and spatial-level priors embedded in pre-
trained Stable Video Diffusion (SVD) [3] with task-specific
information, to ensure the backbone model enjoys enough
capacity for producing high-fidelity results. Concretely,
the pretrained SVD is assisted with conditions from two
sources, i.e., the contaminated task-specific context and the
reference identity image, to indicate the target task and
provide the spatial details. This basic pipeline is modi-
fied with several novelties to benefit GVFR. First, in or-
der to ensure task-specific information can be embedded
in the proper latent space, i.e., videos with same content
and different forms of degradation should be more simi-
lar than videos with different contents, a novel unified face
restoration framework featuring the task embedding and
the unified latent regularization is employed to constrain
the intermediate feature from diffusion UNet. Addition-
ally, to further enhance the human face quality generated
by our model, we propose a facial prior learning objective,
which guides the model with structure priors represented by
face landmarks to smoothly embed the human face struc-
ture prior into the pretrained SVD. During inference, we
leverage a self-referred refinement strategy, in which the
generated results are refined by referring to the previously
generated frames, in order to improve temporal stability.
This whole framework can successfully leverage the com-
plementary strength of BFR, inpainting, and colorization,
thus enhancing the temporal coherence of the restored video
and achieving superior restoration quality.
In order to validate the effectiveness of our method, we
conduct experiments on all three subtasks on VFHQ-test
dataset, following the previous works. Extensive results
show that by addressing the challenges of these video-based
low-level tasks through a unified framework, our method
paves the way for more robust and efficient video restora-
tion techniques, with potential applications in fields such as
video conferencing, film restoration, and surveillance.
In summary, our contributions can be listed as follows:
• We propose a novel framework called Stable Video Face
Restoration (SVFR) that unifies video BFR, inpainting,
and colorization tasks, leveraging shared representations
to enhance supervision from limited training data and im-
prove overall restoration quality.
• We introduce key innovations including a novel unified
latent regularization to ensure proper embedding of task-
specific information, and a facial prior learning objective
that incorporates human face priors using face landmarks,
thereby enhancing the fidelity of the restored videos.
• We develop a self-referred refinement strategy during in-
ference, which refines generated frames by referring to
previously generated ones, significantly improving tem-
poral stability and coherence in the restored videos.
2. Related Works
Diffusion models in video processing. The advent of
diffusion models in image generation [17] has catalyzed
their application in video processing. Early research pri-
marily extended these models [18, 51] to video genera-
tion by incorporating temporal dynamics. For instance,
Video LDM [5] begins with image pretraining and subse-
quently integrates temporal layers fine-tuned on video data.
VideoCrafter [9] enhances video generation by combining
textual and visual features from CLIP [29] within cross-
attention layers. VideoComposer [34] uses images as con-
ditional prompts during training to guide video generation.
Building on these foundations, researchers have explored
additional video processing tasks. VIDIM [20], for exam-
ple, employs cascaded diffusion models for video interpola-
tion, while DiffIR2VR [46] adapts pretrained image-based
diffusion models for zero-shot video restoration through la-
2

=== PAGE 3 ===
tent warping. DiffAct [26] generates action sequences for
temporal action segmentation via iterative denoising.
Blind face restoration. The field of blind face restora-
tion aims to recover high-quality face images from severely
degraded inputs, often captured in uncontrolled settings.
Given the structured nature of faces, researchers have suc-
cessfully incorporated prior information into restoration
models. As an important method to address this task,
generative priors from pre-trained GANs, such as Style-
GAN [21, 22], are leveraged through iterative latent opti-
mization of GAN inversion [14, 27, 28]. Other works such
as GLEAN [6], GPEN [45], and GFPGAN [33] were pro-
posed to introduce generative prior to enhance restoration
quality. Moreover, recent works [15, 19, 23, 36, 53, 54]
also tried to enhancing robustness to severe degradation by
compressing the high quality images into a finite codebook,
or introduce structure prior such as 3D Morphable Model
(3DMM) [2]. Most face restoration methods are image-
based ones [25, 37, 48], without focusing on video-level
tasks. Few video face restoration methods [32, 42] such
as BasicVSR++ [8] and KEEP [12] propose to extend the
image-based models to video tasks. However, these meth-
ods still suffer from severe temporal instability and low
quality. In comparison, our proposed method can perform
much better due to the design of introducing multiple learn-
ing tasks, which has hardly been explored before for BFR.
3. Pilot Study: Can training on multiple video
FR tasks help?
Table 1. Pilot study results. For all subtasks, training models based
on specific prior knowledge leads to better FID.
GVFR subtask FID w/o prior↓ FID w prior↓
BFR 30.023 28.014
Color 12.677 11.941
Inpaint 9.907 9.089
In order to validate the efficacy of leveraging supervision
from multiple subtasks to enhance the performance of video
FR, we setup a straightforward pilot experiment in this sec-
tion. Concretely, we train GPEN [45] for three tasks includ-
ing BFR, colorization and inpainting both with and without
using pretrained model with specific prior knowledge. The
prior knowledge is set as the pretraining on inpainting for
BFR and BFR for the other two tasks. The results are pre-
sented in Tab. 1, from which we can find that the transfer
learning setting consistently outperforms the training-from-
scratch setting in all tasks, thus indicating that these three
subtasks in the GVFR indeed share similar prior knowledge
that can benefit each other.
4. Methodology
Preliminary: Stable Video Diffusion. Diffusion mod-
els [42] are generative models that use a forward process to
turn data x0 ∼ pdata(x) into Gaussian noise xT ∼ N (0, I)
and learn a reverse process to remove this noise step-by-
step. In the forward processq(xt|x0, t), noise is added grad-
ually over T time steps, producing increasingly noisy sam-
ples xt. The reverse process, pθ(xt−1|xt, t), uses a neural
network εθ(xt, t) to predict and remove the noise, progres-
sively recovering the original data.
For video generation tasks, several methods are based on
diffusion models. In this work, we choose Stable Video
Diffusion (SVD) [4] as a base model to utilize its time-
stable modeling capabilities. To model the temporal data,
SVD introduces two types of temporal layers: 3D convolu-
tion layers and temporal attention layers. Temporal layers
are also integrated into the V AE decoder. Given a video
x ∈ RN ×3×H×W , we first encode each frame into the la-
tent space, represented as z = E(x). In this latent space,
we perform forward and reverse processes. The final gener-
ated video, x, is then obtained by decoding from this latent
representation.
Lnoise = EE(x),ϵ∼N (0,1),t
hϵ − ϵθ

zt, t
2
2
i
, (1)
where t is sampled from {0, ..., T}, ϵθ denotes a diffusion
U-Net parameterized by θ. During inference, zT is directly
sampled from Gaussian distribution, which is denoised into
z0 and then mapped back to video space using decoder D
of VQ-V AE.
Overview. To leverage multiple tasks to mutually en-
hance the performance, we present a unified framework Sta-
ble Video Face Restoration (SVFR) as depicted in Fig. 2.
Formally, for each task, the model is provided with a con-
taminated source video Vd (i.e., low-quality video for BFR,
masked video for inpainting, and gray-scale video for col-
orization), and required to generate a repaired version of it,
denoted as Vr. In our proposed framework, the task-level
conditions are initially processed by a novel unified face
restoration framework (Sec. 4.1), where the Task Embed-
ding enhances the model’s ability to recognize the specific
task, and the Unified Latent Regularization integrates in-
termediate feature from diverse task domains into a shared
latent space. To smoothly embed the human facial prior
into the pretrained SVD, we further propose a facial prior
learning objective (Sec. 4.2), which guides the model with
structure priors represented by face landmarks. After that,
we leverage a self-referred refinement strategy (Sec. 4.3),
in which the generated results are refined by referring to the
previously generated frames to improve the temporal stabil-
ity.
3

=== PAGE 4 ===
×T
...
???
????
(a) Training pipeline of SVFR
...
??
(b) Inference pipeline of SVFR
Mapping Network
??
? ??
1 0 0 0 1 1
Task Embedding
??ask
Dropout
by 50%
Landmark Predictor
??????
???
Spatial Layer Temporal Layer
Task Prompt
????? :
?????,   ?≤?≤? :
Facial Prior Learning
???
Latent Transformer
??
Unified Latent Regularization
??
+ ??
−??
????????????
??????
TimeStep
??
???
 ? ??
1 0 0
????
×T
??
???
 ? ??
1 0 0
 ×T
????
????
??
??
??
Figure 2. Pipeline of our proposed SVFR. (a) Training pipeline of SVFR: We incorporate task information into the training process using
a task embedding approach to enhance unified face restoration. To enhance performance across different tasks, we propose unified latent
regularization to effectively aggregate task-specific features, thereby improving the model’s performance on various tasks. Additionally,
we introduce facial landmark information as an auxiliary guidance to help the model learn structural priors related to human face. Finally,
we propose a Self-referred Refinement method that ensures temporal stability. During training, a reference frame is randomly provided, the
model will produce consistent results when a reference frame is available. (b) Inference pipeline of SVFR: During inference, we initially
generate the first video clip without a reference frame, then select a result frame as the reference image Iref for subsequent video clips.
4.1. Unified Face Restoration Framework
In order to guide the denoising process with source video
Vd, a simple approach is to encodeVd into latent space and
directly concatenate E(Vd) with the noise zt. However, the
source videos from different tasks can convey different prior
information. For instance, Vd provided by BFR shares the
same structural information with Vr while lacking detailed
texture information. On the other hand, information from
Vr is fully retained in Vd for unmasked regions while be-
ing unavailable inside the masked areas. Therefore, simply
adopting pretrained V AE cannot encode all source videos
into a proper and consistent latent space which can then be
used to guide the diffusion U-Net.
To this end, we propose a unified face restoration frame-
work comprising two key modules: Task Embedding and
the Unified Latent Regularization. The Task Embedding
module is designed to capture the unique characteristics
of each task, allowing the model to adjust when switching
between tasks adaptively. Meanwhile, the Unified Latent
Regularization integrates information across tasks within a
shared latent space, ensuring that task-specific features are
effectively leveraged for enhanced performance across di-
verse tasks.
Task embedding. While the source videoVd can indicate
the required task to some extent, directly relying on Vd for
task information can lead to confusion. For example, both
colorization and BFR may involve video with destroyed
color information. Moreover, when handling multiple types
of contamination, Vd itself cannot provide sufficient infor-
mation for the target task, thus potentially leading to unde-
sired outcomes. since Vd from different tasks are input into
the model, it is challenging for the model to distinguish the
target task without additional guidance, potentially leading
to undesired outcomes. To this end, we leverage the Task
Embedding module as an essential component within the
multi-task framework, designed to capture and represent the
unique characteristics of each task, thereby enhancing the
model’s ability to recognize and adapt to specific tasks.
Given a task set T = {T1, T2, T3}, where T1, T2 and
T3 represent BFR, colorization, and inpainting tasks respec-
tively. To enhance the model’s ability to recognize tasks,
each task is represented by a binary indicator ti(i ∈ [1, 3])
(0 for absence and 1 for presence). The task prompt is rep-
resented as a binary vector γ = [ t1, t2, t3]. For example,
[0, 1, 1] indicates that colorization and inpainting tasks are
active while BFR is inactive. For a given task prompt γ, a
Task Embedding layerEtask is employed to map γ to a task
embedding Etask(γ), which is then integrated into the dif-
fusion U-Net to guide task-specific adaptations throughout
the model by adding it to the time embedding.
Unified Latent Regularization. To further align features
across different tasks and enable the model to leverage
4

=== PAGE 5 ===
shared knowledge within a unified learning framework, we
propose Unified Latent Regularization (ULR). ULR con-
strains the feature distributions of various degraded tasks
for the same video within the U-Net feature space, allowing
the model to learn common features across multi-tasks.
Specifically, we implement cross-task alignment using
features from the middle block of the UNet. We first extract
the output from the intermediate layers of the UNet, as these
layers capture essential structural and semantic information
crucial for modeling nuanced video details. These interme-
diate outputs xd are then processed through a Latent Trans-
former Tl, composed with two resblock and a layernorm,
producing feature representations of the video frames ˆxd.
Subsequently, we compute the contrastive loss on these
features to improve visual consistency across tasks and
reinforce restoration quality. This ensures that output
frames across tasks share unified intermediate features dur-
ing restoration, thereby enhancing structural consistency,
reducing artifacts, and elevating overall generation quality.
Formally, the proposed regularization term for each batch
can be represented as:
LU LR = − log

exp

(ˆxi · ˆx+
i )/τ

PN
j=1 exp

(ˆxi · ˆx−
j )/τ

!
, (2)
where ˆxi denotes the intermediate features obtained from
the Latent Transformer, representing the primary degraded
video. ˆx+
i indicates features derived from different degra-
dations of the same source video, while ˆx−
j corresponds to
features from different source videos, also extracted through
the UNet and transformer module. By applying this regu-
larization constraint, ULR effectively maintains spatial and
detail feature consistency across tasks, thereby enhancing
fidelity.
4.2. Facial Prior Learning
While the pretrained SVD can be directly adapted to our
task by optimizing the noise prediction loss as in Eq. 1, such
an objective cannot help inject the structure priors of human
faces into the model. As a result, the model may struggle to
generate facial details with consistent structure.
To address this problem and further guide the model in
preserving the facial structure, we introduce an auxiliary
objective function that can encourage the model to concen-
trate on the human face structure-related information from
noisy latent. Concretely, we leverage the features xd output
from the U-Net middle block and pass them through a land-
mark predictor Plm composed of an average pooling layer
followed by five layers of MLP. This predictor is trained
to estimate a 68-points facial landmark set, obtained from
ground truth frames using a pretrained landmark detection
model [16].
To achieve precise alignment between predicted and
ground-truth landmarks, inspired by [13], we utilize a fa-
cial prior loss for fine-grained facial landmark regression.
Formally, for each predicted landmark ˆyi = Plm(xd) and
its corresponding ground truth yi from Vlm, this loss func-
tion is defined as:
Lprior =

wln(1 + |x| /ϵ) if |x| < w
|x| − C otherwise , (3)
where x denotes the difference ˆyi − yi, with w and ϵ as
hyperparameters controlling the balance between linear and
logarithmic scaling, and C ensuring continuity. This loss
is incorporated as an auxiliary component in the total loss
function, weighted to balance with other objectives, thereby
guiding the model to prioritize facial structure consistency
across different tasks. This approach selectively emphasizes
smaller deviations while maintaining robustness to outliers,
making it highly effective for accurate facial feature align-
ment.
In all, the diffusion U-Net ϵθ is optimized together with
the unified latent regularization Tl, the task embedding
Etask and the landmark predictor Plm, using the following
composited objective function:
L = Lnoise + λ1LU LR + λ2Lprior, (4)
where λ1, λ2 is a hyper-parameter. The detailed model ar-
chitecture is provided in the supplementary materials.
4.3. Self-referred Refinement
To achieve temporal stability and consistency across entire
segments in long video facial restoration tasks, we propose
a mechanism called Self-referred Refinement. This method
enhances generation quality by injecting reference frame
features during the generation process, ensuring structural
and stylistic consistency between frames and improving
overall generation results.
In the training phase, we extract features from the ref-
erence frame Iref using a V AE encoder zref = E(Iref ).
These features are then injected into the initial noise of
the U-Net model. Additionally, identity features fid are
extracted by Eid and passed through a mapping network
Mid before being injected into the cross-attention layers of
the U-Net. To improve model generalization and allow the
model to generate content without a reference frame, we
apply a 50% dropout to the reference frame during training.
This strategy encourages the model to develop independent
content restoration capabilities, enabling it to produce con-
sistent facial structures even without explicit conditioning.
In inference, for sequential generation across video seg-
ments, the model first generates the initial video segment
without a reference frame. From this generated segment,
we select one frame as a reference for subsequent segments.
This approach ensures stylistic and structural continuity
across frames, facilitating long-range consistency through-
out the entire video sequence.
5

=== PAGE 6 ===
Table 2. Quantitative comparisons with state-of-the-art methods on the VFHQ-test dataset.The results show that our method achieves
the best performance across both image and video metrics, outperforming all methods on the GVFR tasks. Notably, our approach is tested
on a unified model, while other methods use specially trained model for each task. PGTFormer [42] and KEEP [12] did not provide trained
models for colorization and inpainting, so the metrics for these two tasks are empty.
Methods BFR / Colorization / Inpainting
PSNR↑ SSIM↑ LPIPS↓ IDS↑ VIDD↓ FVD↓
GPEN [45] 26.237 / 22.012/ 23.596 0.795 / 0.887/ 0.886 0.320 / 0.294/ 0.228 0.786 / 0.959/ 0.757 0.575/ 0.499/ 0.671 412.81 / 366.2481/ 286.763
CodeFormerr [53] 26.528 / 17.927 / 28.6720.762/ 0.663 / 0.8960.361 / 0.508 / 0.1560.784 / 0.624 / 0.8460.700 / 0.895 / 0.727 379.53 / 551.448 / 170.631
PGDiff [44] 23.638 / 21.550 / 20.551 0.765 / 0.825 / 0.794 0.399 / 0.481 / 0.360 0.489 / 0.794 / 0.615 0.649 / 0.558 / 0.595445.36 / 370.150 / 354.615
PGTFormer [42] 28.996 / - / - 0.843 / - / - 0.248 / - / - 0.845 / - / - 0.577 / - / - 154.857 / - / -
KEEP [12] 27.335 / - / - 0.813 / - / - 0.259 / - / - 0.790 / - / - 0.787 / - / - 399.239 / - / -
Ours 29.563/23.079/29.119 0.862/0.896/0.904 0.223/0.272/0.153 0.902/0.980/0.888 0.479/0.497/0.504 89.316/204.260/88.354
5. Experiments
5.1. Implementation detail
Dataset. We construct the training datasets by following
previous works focusing on three subtasks. Specifically, We
selected V oxCeleb2 [11], CelebV-Text [47], and VFHQ [39]
as our training datasets. To enhance the quality of our train-
ing data, we utilize ARNIQA [1] score to filtere a high-
quality video dataset comprising 20,000 clips. The VFHQ-
test dataset [39] is selected as test dataset, which contains
50 videos. For the BFR task, we applied various degrada-
tions, including random blurring, noise addition, resizing,
and video compression (CRF). For the colorization task,
we converted the videos to grayscale, and for the inpaint-
ing task, we applied brush stroke masks [45] to the video
frames. Since some comparison methods operate only on
aligned images or videos, we performed alignment on the
test data.
Metrics. To evaluate our model’s performance in face
restoration, we use a range of targeted metrics. PSNR
and SSIM [35] assess frame-level reconstruction accuracy,
while LPIPS [49] captures perceptual quality. IDS evalu-
ates identity consistency in face restoration. At the video
level, VIDD [10] measures temporal consistency by calcu-
lating identity feature differences between adjacent frames
using ArcFace, and FVD [31] assesses overall video quality,
reflecting spatial and temporal coherence.
Baseline. For the BFR task, we benchmarked our ap-
proach against state-of-the-art methods, including image-
based methods such as GPEN [45], CodeFormer [53],
and PGDiff [44], which generate frames independently,
processing them one by one. We also compared with
video-based restoration methods like PGTFormer [42] and
KEEP [12]. All testing degradations were applied consis-
tently across methods, and each baseline followed the set-
tings reported in their respective original papers. For the
inpainting and colorization tasks, we selected GPEN [45],
CodeFormer [53], and PGDiff [44] for comparison.
5.2. Comparison with State-of-the-Art Methods
Qualitative analysis. In Table 2, we present a comprehen-
sive comparison of our method against state-of-the-art tech-
niques for the BFR, colorization, and inpainting tasks on
the VFHQ-test dataset. Our approach outperforms existing
methods across a range of image quality metrics, including
PSNR, SSIM and LPIPS, showcasing its superior ability to
restore high-quality video frames. Notably, the higher IDS
score demonstrates our method’s enhanced capacity to pre-
serve facial identity consistency throughout the restoration
process. Furthermore, the improved VIDD and FVD scores
reflect significant gains in both the realism and temporal sta-
bility of the restored video, underscoring the robustness of
our method in handling dynamic video restoration tasks.
Quantitative analysis. To further validate the effectiveness
of our approach, we performed a visual comparison with
existing methods, as shown in Fig. 3. The results demon-
strate that other methods often struggle with issues such as
frame-level blurring, facial feature distortions, and produc-
ing artifacts, especially when there are large pose or motion
changes between consecutive frames. Additionally, these
methods tend to fail in challenging scenarios, including fa-
cial occlusion, the presence of accessories such as glasses
or earrings, and side-profile views, where our approach con-
sistently delivers more accurate and stable restorations. For
instance, in the first case, when the face is obstructed by a
microphone, other methods tend to distort the mouth region
during generation, thereby compromising the overall facial
structure in the restored video. Meanwhile, they also suffer
from temporal inconsistencies, including abrupt changes in
facial features, flickering, and poor frame-to-frame conti-
nuity, which degrade the overall stability and realism of the
restored video.
Additionally, we conducted a visual comparison for the
colorization and inpainting tasks. Fig.4(left) presents the re-
sults for the colorization task, where our method produces
clear, faithful video frames that are consistent with the input
grayscale video. Unlike CodeFormer and PGDiff, our ap-
proach avoids issues such as distorted facial attributes (e.g.,
unrealistic eyes, etc.). Furthermore, leveraging the Self-
referred Refinement strategy, our method does not intro-
duce color shifts across frames, maintaining temporal con-
sistency. Fig.4(right) presents the comparison results for
the inpainting task. The results show that other methods
tend to generate distorted or collapsed facial structures in
the masked regions, especially when head pose transforma-
tions occur. In contrast, our method effectively reconstructs
6

=== PAGE 7 ===
GPENCodeformer BFR inputKEEP PGDiffOurs
 PGTformer
Figure 3. Comparisons of SVFR with Advanced BFR Methods. Compared to other methods, SVFR avoids distortions in facial structure
and shifts in facial attributes, resulting in highly realistic faces. It also demonstrates high spatial and temporal stability in complex scenarios
such as occlusion, side-profile views, and large motion.
GPENCodeformer InputPGDiffOurs
Figure 4. Comparisons of SVFR with Advanced Colorization (left) and Inpainting (right) Methods. Compared to other methods,
our model preserves realistic facial structure and attributes, while keeping detail preservation, and cross-frame stability across extended
sequences.
facial features with high accuracy, preserving both struc-
tural integrity and consistency across frames.
To assess temporal stability, we utilize a temporal stack-
ing visualization, where a vertical line of pixels from the
same spatial location is extracted across consecutive frames.
As shown in Fig.5, image-based methods often suffer from
jitter and misalignment along the temporal axis, while
video-based methods exhibit limited texture continuity. In
contrast, our approach ensures a smooth and consistent tran-
sition across frames, as evidenced by the seamless and co-
herent texture in the stacked visualization. This underscores
the robustness of our method in preserving both facial fea-
ture integrity and temporal stability throughout the video
sequence.
7

=== PAGE 8 ===
Table 3. Ablation study for multi-task training.
Methods BFR / Colorization / Inpainting
PSNR↑ SSIM↑ LPIPS↓ IDS↑ VIDD↓ FVD↓
single 28.323 / 22.233 / 27.765 0.845 / 0.831 / 0.896 0.260 / 0.279 / 0.162 0.854 / 0.978 / 0.861 0.495 / 0.503 / 0.517 167.313 / 233.389 / 106.522
multi 28.936 / 22.921 / 28.303 0.854 / 0.870 / 0.898 0.242 / 0.274 / 0.156 0.881 / 0.979/ 0.875 0.489 / 0.501 / 0.511 98.781 / 223.168 / 101.146
multi+ULR 29.296/ 22.987/ 28.337 0.859/ 0.886/ 0.900 0.225/0.270/ 0.155 0.884/ 0.978 / 0.8790.486/ 0.498/ 0.508 90.353/ 214.846/ 93.615
multi+ULR+FPL29.563/23.079/29.119 0.862/0.896/0.904 0.223/ 0.272/0.153 0.902/0.980/0.888 0.479/0.497/0.504 89.316/204.260/88.354
GPEN CodeFormer PGDiff
PGTFormer KEEP Ours
Frames
GT
Figure 5. Temporal Stability Comparison. Through temporal
stacking visualizations, we observe that our method exhibits sig-
nificantly less jitter compared to other approaches, demonstrated
the superior temporal stability of our approach, ensuring that the
restored video frames maintain both spatial coherence and tempo-
ral continuity, even across long sequences.
5.3. Ablation Study
To further verify the efficacy of our contributions, we con-
duct several ablation studies with evaluation on VFHQ test
dataset. Due to space limitations, additional ablation studies
are provided in the supplementary materials.
Multi-Task training. As demonstrated in Sec. 3, three sub-
tasks in our proposed GVFR share common prior knowl-
edge. To further validate that training on GVFR improves
performance compared to training each task individually,
Tab. 3 compares the performance metrics of each task when
trained separately versus within the GVFR framework. The
results clearly show that multi-task training enhances over-
all model performance by facilitating the transfer of shared
features across tasks. This leads to better detail preserva-
tion and temporal stability, confirming that joint training is
beneficial for comprehensive facial video restoration.
Effectiveness of Unified Latent Regularization. We
conduct ablation studies on Unified Latent Regularization
(ULR) with λ1 = 0 .01, In Tab. 3, the results show that
ULR improves consistency across multiple restoration tasks
by facilitating the sharing of common features and ensuring
coherence within frames from the same source. By optimiz-
ing the shared feature representation in multi-task learning,
ULR not only preserves facial characteristics but also en-
hances cross-task knowledge transfer, enabling better adap-
tation to diverse restoration challenges.This unified frame-
work significantly improves video clarity, refines facial de-
tails, and strengthens temporal stability, ensuring smooth
frame transitions and reduced artifacts. Ultimately, ULR
enables tasks to mutually reinforce each other, leading to
robust and comprehensive facial video restoration.
Effectiveness of facial prior learning. As shown in Tab. 3
with λ2 = 0 .1, Lprior enhances temporal consistency and
w/o SRRw SRR
Figure 6. Ablation study on self-referred refinement (SRR).
Comparison of model inference with and without the SRR strat-
egy shows that incorporating SRR results in more stable temporal
consistency, including consistent facial attributes and video color.
ensures spatial coherence, particularly in BFR and inpaint-
ing, even under challenging conditions such as occlusions
and side-profile views. By aligning facial features struc-
turally, the prior loss significantly improves model stability
and robustness in video restoration.
Effectiveness of self-referred refinement. To validate the
efficacy of the proposed self-referred refinement(SRR), we
provide visual comparisons of inference results with and
without the Self-referred Refinement strategy. As observed
in Fig.6, without SRR, inconsistencies emerge over long
video sequences, such as color shifts in colorization tasks
and facial misalignment in inpainting tasks, especially in re-
drawn regions. By contrast, incorporating SRR allows the
model to maintain consistent identity, color, and facial at-
tributes across extended sequences. This refinement mech-
anism reinforces temporal stability, ensuring that features
remain cohesive throughout the video, thereby greatly en-
hancing the reliability and continuity of restored facial at-
tributes in long-sequence video restoration.
6. Conclusion
In this paper, we have introduced the Generalized Video
Face Restoration (GVFR), which is an extended task com-
posed of video BFR, inpainting and colorization. A novel
unified face restoration framework is designed to simulta-
neously address all three challenges in videos. By engaging
supervision from all three tasks rather than training models
for each task respectively, our method enhances the overall
quality and temporal consistency of restored videos. Our
approach integrates representative motion priors from pre-
trained SVD with task-specific information through a uni-
fied latent regularization and facial prior learning, resulting
in significant improvements over existing state-of-the-art
methods. Extensive experimental evaluations demonstrate
the efficacy of our method in achieving superior restoration
quality and temporal coherence.
8

=== PAGE 9 ===
References
[1] Lorenzo Agnolucci, Leonardo Galteri, Marco Bertini, and
Alberto Del Bimbo. Arniqa: Learning distortion mani-
fold for image quality assessment. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer
Vision, 2024. 6
[2] V olker Blanz and Thomas Vetter. A morphable model for
the synthesis of 3d faces. In Proceedings of the 26th an-
nual conference on Computer graphics and interactive tech-
niques, 1999. 3
[3] Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Sumith Kulal, Daniel
Mendelevitch, Maciej Kilian, Dominik Lorenz, Yam Levi,
Zion English, Vikram V oleti, Adam Letts, et al. Stable video
diffusion: Scaling latent video diffusion models to large
datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127, 2023. 2
[4] Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Sumith Kulal, Daniel
Mendelevitch, Maciej Kilian, Dominik Lorenz, Yam Levi,
Zion English, Vikram V oleti, Adam Letts, et al. Stable video
diffusion: Scaling latent video diffusion models to large
datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127, 2023. 3
[5] Andreas Blattmann, Robin Rombach, Huan Ling, Tim Dock-
horn, Seung Wook Kim, Sanja Fidler, and Karsten Kreis.
Align your latents: High-resolution video synthesis with la-
tent diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Con-
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2023.
2
[6] Kelvin CK Chan, Xintao Wang, Xiangyu Xu, Jinwei Gu,
and Chen Change Loy. GLEAN: Generative latent bank for
large-factor image super-resolution. In CVPR, 2021. 3
[7] Kelvin CK Chan, Shangchen Zhou, Xiangyu Xu, and
Chen Change Loy. Basicvsr++: Improving video super-
resolution with enhanced propagation and alignment. InPro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition, 2022. 1
[8] Kelvin C.K. Chan, Shangchen Zhou, Xiangyu Xu, and
Chen Change Loy. BasicVSR++: Improving video super-
resolution with enhanced propagation and alignment. In
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition, 2022. 3
[9] Haoxin Chen, Menghan Xia, Yingqing He, Yong Zhang,
Xiaodong Cun, Shaoshu Yang, Jinbo Xing, Yaofang Liu,
Qifeng Chen, Xintao Wang, et al. Videocrafter1: Open
diffusion models for high-quality video generation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.19512, 2023. 2
[10] Ziyan Chen, Jingwen He, Xinqi Lin, Yu Qiao, and Chao
Dong. Towards real-world video face restoration: A new
benchmark. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.19500, 2024. 6
[11] Joon Son Chung, Arsha Nagrani, and Andrew Zisserman.
V oxceleb2: Deep speaker recognition. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1806.05622, 2018. 6
[12] Ruicheng Feng, Chongyi Li, and Chen Change Loy.
Kalman-inspired feature propagation for video face super-
resolution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.05205, 2024. 3, 6
[13] Zhen-Hua Feng, Josef Kittler, Muhammad Awais, Patrik Hu-
ber, and Xiao-Jun Wu. Wing loss for robust facial landmark
localisation with convolutional neural networks. InProceed-
ings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, 2018. 5
[14] Jinjin Gu, Yujun Shen, and Bolei Zhou. Image processing
using multi-code gan prior. In CVPR, 2020. 3
[15] Yuchao Gu, Xintao Wang, Liangbin Xie, Chao Dong, Gen
Li, Ying Shan, and Ming-Ming Cheng. Vqfr: Blind
face restoration with vector-quantized dictionary and paral-
lel decoder. In European Conference on Computer Vision .
Springer, 2022. 3
[16] Jia Guo, Jiankang Deng, Niannan Xue, and Stefanos
Zafeiriou. Stacked dense u-nets with dual transformers for
robust face alignment. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.01936 ,
2018. 5
[17] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising dif-
fusion probabilistic models. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 2020. 2
[18] Jonathan Ho, Tim Salimans, Alexey Gritsenko, William
Chan, Mohammad Norouzi, and David J Fleet. Video dif-
fusion models. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2022. 2
[19] Xiaobin Hu, Wenqi Ren, John LaMaster, Xiaochun Cao, Xi-
aoming Li, Zechao Li, Bjoern Menze, and Wei Liu. Face
super-resolution guided by 3d facial priors. In Computer
Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th European Conference, Glasgow,
UK, August 23–28, 2020, Proceedings, Part IV 16 , pages
763–780. Springer, 2020. 3
[20] Siddhant Jain, Daniel Watson, Eric Tabellion, Ben Poole,
Janne Kontkanen, et al. Video interpolation with diffusion
models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2024. 2
[21] Tero Karras, Samuli Laine, and Timo Aila. A style-based
generator architecture for generative adversarial networks. In
CVPR, 2019. 3
[22] Tero Karras, Samuli Laine, Miika Aittala, Janne Hellsten,
Jaakko Lehtinen, and Timo Aila. Analyzing and improving
the image quality of stylegan. In CVPR, 2020. 3
[23] Aijin Li, Gen Li, Lei Sun, and Xintao Wang. Faceformer:
Scale-aware blind face restoration with transformers. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2207.09790, 2022. 3
[24] Xiaoming Li, Chaofeng Chen, Shangchen Zhou, Xianhui
Lin, Wangmeng Zuo, and Lei Zhang. Blind face restora-
tion via deep multi-scale component dictionaries. In ECCV,
2020. 2
[25] Xinqi Lin, Jingwen He, Ziyan Chen, Zhaoyang Lyu, Bo Dai,
Fanghua Yu, Wanli Ouyang, Yu Qiao, and Chao Dong. Diff-
bir: Towards blind image restoration with generative diffu-
sion prior. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.15070, 2023. 3
[26] Daochang Liu, Qiyue Li, Anh-Dung Dinh, Tingting Jiang,
Mubarak Shah, and Chang Xu. Diffusion action segmenta-
tion. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Confer-
ence on Computer Vision, 2023. 3
[27] Sachit Menon, Alexandru Damian, Shijia Hu, Nikhil Ravi,
and Cynthia Rudin. Pulse: Self-supervised photo upsam-
pling via latent space exploration of generative models. In
CVPR, 2020. 3
[28] Xingang Pan, Xiaohang Zhan, Bo Dai, Dahua Lin,
Chen Change Loy, and Ping Luo. Exploiting deep genera-
9

=== PAGE 10 ===
tive prior for versatile image restoration and manipulation.
TPAMI, 44(11):7474–7489, 2021. 3
[29] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learn-
ing transferable visual models from natural language super-
vision. In International conference on machine learning .
PMLR, 2021. 2
[30] Sridhar Sola and Darshan Gera. Unmasking your expression:
Expression-conditioned gan for masked face inpainting. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vi-
sion and pattern recognition, pages 5908–5916, 2023. 2
[31] Thomas Unterthiner, Sjoerd van Steenkiste, Karol Kurach,
Rapha¨el Marinier, Marcin Michalski, and Sylvain Gelly.
Fvd: A new metric for video generation. 2019. 6
[32] Xintao Wang, Kelvin CK Chan, Ke Yu, Chao Dong, and
Chen Change Loy. EDVR: Video restoration with enhanced
deformable convolutional networks. In CVPRW, 2019. 3
[33] Xintao Wang, Yu Li, Honglun Zhang, and Ying Shan. To-
wards real-world blind face restoration with generative facial
prior. In CVPR, 2021. 2, 3
[34] Xiang Wang, Hangjie Yuan, Shiwei Zhang, Dayou Chen, Ji-
uniu Wang, Yingya Zhang, Yujun Shen, Deli Zhao, and Jin-
gren Zhou. Videocomposer: Compositional video synthesis
with motion controllability. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2024. 2
[35] Zhou Wang, Alan C Bovik, Hamid R Sheikh, and Eero P Si-
moncelli. Image quality assessment: from error visibility to
structural similarity. IEEE transactions on image processing,
2004. 6
[36] Zhouxia Wang, Jiawei Zhang, Runjian Chen, Wenping
Wang, and Ping Luo. Restoreformer: High-quality blind
face restoration from undegraded key-value pairs. In CVPR,
2022. 3
[37] Zhixin Wang, Ziying Zhang, Xiaoyun Zhang, Huangjie
Zheng, Mingyuan Zhou, Ya Zhang, and Yanfeng Wang. Dr2:
Diffusion-based robust degradation remover for blind face
restoration. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition , pages 1704–
1713, 2023. 3
[38] Joseph Worsham and Jugal Kalita. Multi-task learning for
natural language processing in the 2020s: Where are we go-
ing? Pattern Recognition Letters, 136:120–126, 2020. 2
[39] Liangbin Xie, Xintao Wang, Honglun Zhang, Chao Dong,
and Ying Shan. Vfhq: A high-quality dataset and bench-
mark for video face super-resolution. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2022. 6
[40] Jiangtao Xu, Kaige Lu, Xingping Shi, Shuzhen Qin, Han
Wang, and Jianguo Ma. A denseunet generative adversarial
network for near-infrared face image colorization. Signal
Processing, 183:108007, 2021. 2
[41] Jianjin Xu, Saman Motamed, Praneetha Vaddamanu,
Chen Henry Wu, Christian Haene, Jean-Charles Bazin, and
Fernando De la Torre. Personalized face inpainting with dif-
fusion models by parallel visual attention. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Com-
puter Vision, pages 5432–5442, 2024. 2
[42] Kepeng Xu, Li Xu, Gang He, Wenxin Yu, and Yun-
song Li. Beyond alignment: Blind video face restoration
via parsing-guided temporal-coherent transformer. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2404.13640, 2024. 3, 6
[43] Haiwei Xue, Xiangyang Luo, Zhanghao Hu, Xin Zhang,
Xunzhi Xiang, Yuqin Dai, Jianzhuang Liu, Zhensong Zhang,
Minglei Li, Jian Yang, et al. Human motion video genera-
tion: A survey. Authorea Preprints, 2024. 1
[44] Peiqing Yang, Shangchen Zhou, Qingyi Tao, and
Chen Change Loy. Pgdiff: Guiding diffusion models
for versatile face restoration via partial guidance. Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2024. 6
[45] Tao Yang, Peiran Ren, Xuansong Xie, and Lei Zhang. Gan
prior embedded network for blind face restoration in the
wild. In CVPR, 2021. 3, 6
[46] Chang-Han Yeh, Chin-Yang Lin, Zhixiang Wang, Chi-Wei
Hsiao, Ting-Hsuan Chen, and Yu-Lun Liu. Diffir2vr-
zero: Zero-shot video restoration with diffusion-based image
restoration models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01519, 2024.
2
[47] Jianhui Yu, Hao Zhu, Liming Jiang, Chen Change Loy, Wei-
dong Cai, and Wayne Wu. Celebv-text: A large-scale facial
text-video dataset. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Con-
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2023.
6
[48] Zongsheng Yue and Chen Change Loy. Difface: Blind face
restoration with diffused error contraction. IEEE Transac-
tions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 2024. 3
[49] Richard Zhang, Phillip Isola, Alexei A Efros, Eli Shecht-
man, and Oliver Wang. The unreasonable effectiveness of
deep features as a perceptual metric. In Proceedings of the
IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recogni-
tion, 2018. 6
[50] Shu Zhang, Ran He, Zhenan Sun, and Tieniu Tan. Demesh-
net: Blind face inpainting for deep meshface verification.
IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security ,
13(3):637–647, 2017. 2
[51] Shiwei Zhang, Jiayu Wang, Yingya Zhang, Kang Zhao,
Hangjie Yuan, Zhiwu Qin, Xiang Wang, Deli Zhao, and
Jingren Zhou. I2vgen-xl: High-quality image-to-video
synthesis via cascaded diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.04145, 2023. 2
[52] Shangchen Zhou, Kelvin Chan, Chongyi Li, and
Chen Change Loy. Towards robust blind face restora-
tion with codebook lookup transformer. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 35:30599–30611, 2022. 2
[53] Shangchen Zhou, Kelvin C.K. Chan, Chongyi Li, and
Chen Change Loy. Towards robust blind face restoration
with codebook lookup transformer. In NeurIPS, 2022. 3,
6
[54] Feida Zhu, Junwei Zhu, Wenqing Chu, Xinyi Zhang, Xi-
aozhong Ji, Chengjie Wang, and Ying Tai. Blind face restora-
tion via integrating face shape and generative priors. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition, 2022. 3
10